---
layout: post
title: "Reem shares her research in Leeds on data-sharing in autonomous vehicles"
date: 2024-07-23 12:00:00 +0000
subtitle: "Hyperledger Fabric Platform for Secure and Efficient Data Sharing in Autonomous Vehicles."
---

In July, Reem Alhabib presented at the [11th International Conference on Wireless Networks and Mobile Communications (WINCOM 2024)](https://www.wincom-conf.org/WINCOM_2024/), sharing her work on using hyperledger fabric to share data from autonomous vehicles in a secure and efficient manner, providing the possibility to share sensor readings, environment information and user data, potentially revolutionising transportation.

You can [read the published paper, titled: "Hyperledger Fabric Platform for Secure and Efficient Data Sharing in Autonomous Vehicles"](/publications/2024-hyperledger-fabric-platform), which is available through IEEE or in open access through the White Rose Consortium.

## About the presentation

Advancements in wireless communication, encompassing cellular and non-terrestrial networks, are empowering Autonomous Vehicles (AVs) to revolutionize transportation. The achievement of real-time data exchange and seamless communication with infrastructure promises a future of safer and more efficient travel. However, the significant challenge of efficiently managing the extensive data generated by AVs persists. This data includes sensor readings, information about the surrounding environment, and potentially user data. Consequently, addressing concerns related to data processing, sharing among various stakeholders, privacy, integrity, and security is of utmost importance. This paper tackles the data sharing challenge by proposing and evaluating a platform built on Hyperledger Fabric, a blockchain technology. This platform aims to facilitate secure and efficient data sharing between all parties involved with AVs. Our initial testing reveals that the number of simulated users (virtual user count) and the amount of data processed (data load) can negatively impact the system’s performance. This highlights the need for further optimization to ensure the platform can handle large-scale data sharing effectively.