---
layout: opportunity
title: "Postdoctoral Research Associate in Trustworthy AI for Network Optimisation"
subtitle: "Working on CHEDDAR: Communications Hub For Empowering Distributed ClouD Computing Applications And Research"
salary: "£36,024 to £44,263 per annum"
date: 2024-03-05 12:00:00 +0000
closing: 2024-03-22 12:00:00 +0000
background: '/img/5g-networks.jpg'
link: 'https://jobs.york.ac.uk/vacancy/postdoctoral-research-associate-in-trustworthy-ai-for-network-optimisation-552822.html'
---

The "Communications Hub For Empowering Distributed ClouD Computing Applications And Research (CHEDDAR)", funded as part of a UK Research and Innovation's multi-million research programme on future communication technologies, offers a fixed-term Postdoctoral Research Associate position focused on trustworthy AI for automating ultra-large network optimisation.

Based within the University of York's Department of Computer Science, the project is an interdisciplinary effort to leverage recent advances in AI and autonomous technologies in order to deliver a step change in the automated optimisation of wireless communication networks. The project will develop neuro-symbolic AI techniques and software tools that combine machine learning, generative AI and probabilistic reasoning to ensure the safe and resilient adaptation of communication networks to uncertainty, change and disruption. This ambitious vision will be delivered through close collaboration with research partners at Imperial College London. The fundamental research advances and software tools generated by the project will be validated with the support of industrial partners.

The main purpose of the role:
- To comprehend and communicate specialised or highly technical content to a team or group of individuals through presentations and discussions, ultimately culminating in the presentation of research papers at conferences and in publications.
- To conduct research under the supervision of senior colleagues and to contribute to the production of research in the area of trustworthy AI for automating ultra-large network optimisation within the context of future communication.
- To assist in the identification and development of potential areas of research and the development of proposals for independent or collaborative research projects.
- To deal with problems that may affect the achievement of research objectives and deadlines by discussing with Project Lead  and offering creative or innovative solutions.

## Department 

The [Department of Computer Science](https://www.cs.york.ac.uk/) is a research-intensive department made up of over 90 academics delivering on-campus programmes to more than 800 students and online courses to over 1500 students. Our vision is to be internationally leading on education and research into engineering safe, ethical and secure computational systems.

## Skills, Experience and Qualifications

You will have:
- First degree in  Computer Science, Electronic Engineering, or Physics
- PhD in Computer Science, Electronic Engineering, Physics or equivalent experience
- Knowledge of a range of research techniques and methodologies
- Knowledge of computational tools to implement numerical analysis and benchmarking protocols
- Highly developed communication skills to engage effectively with a wide ranging audience, both orally and in writing, using a range of media
- Ability to write up research work for publication in high profile journals and engage in public dissemination
- Experience of carrying out both independent and collaborative research
- Experience of writing up research work for publication
- Attention to detail and commitment to high quality
- Collaborative ethos

Please see [the job description](https://jobs.york.ac.uk/vacancy/postdoctoral-research-associate-in-trustworthy-ai-for-network-optimisation-552822.html) for the full list. 

This role will be fixed term for 15 months.

For informal enquiries: please contact Prof Radu Calinescu (radu.calinescu@york.ac.uk), Dr Hamed Ahmadi  (hamed.ahmadi@york.ac.uk) or Dr Poonam Yadav (poonam.yadav@york.ac.uk).
